


POPAnim exampleAnim[10];
 

1. array
2. position
3. speed
4. boomerang


POPAnim("array", exampleAnim, "position", (100,100), "speed", 6.0f, "boomerang", true);

if you wanted to use an anim, you would need to hold data for it, right?

like which frame it is currently in, and if it's supposed to be playing or not, stuff like that

we could have a single draw function that draws all anims without needing to pass them params

like I do with the UI lib, they just get automatically added to the draw queue

okay so you already learned how to use GblArrayList right?

so my thought process for this is:

1 - We hold a draw queue (a GblArrayList) that we can sort by Z-Index (just like my draw queue on the ui lib)
2 - When we create POPAnims, they automatically get added to it
3 - POPAnims hold their own data (current frame, should draw, etc.)
4 - Draw function goes through the draw queue and handles it all automatically

makes sense?

so we just need to create the POPAnim type, which honestly doesn't reeaaaally need to be a libGimbal class unless
we really want function overloading / default args for this

so that's up to you

yeah then let's do that

do both of you understand the difference between class / object ?

nupi do you?
exactly

so you do too cypress
it's just an instance of a class

okay, so we need to make our class which inherits from GblObject, the most primitive type of objects there is on libGimbal
(technically not true, there are more primitives, but it is the one you'll use the most)

do you both understand how inheritance works?

imagine for a moment that classes are just structs

imagine it looks like this:

Struct a {
	int x;
	int y;
}


and you want Struct b to inherit from struct a

Struct b {
	struct a parent;
	int z;
}

this is literally all inheritance is. lol.

except, it has some other cool features

this can hold function pointers, and overload/extend their functionality

well I guess you should know this first:


(you can follow/unfollow me in the liveshare tab, just click my name)

if we treated Struct b as an instance of Struct a : this WILL work
^ this works because the memory layout is THE SAME.

imagine memory address 0x00000 is the start of an instance of struct a, let's call that address `begin`

so begin + sizeof(int) will be where int x is, right?
this is also true for Struct b

so if you wanted to use Struct b as Struct a, and your functions just looked for memory offsets, they would behave the SAME

does that make sense?

yeah, that's exactly it

this would be the "data" part of inheritance
inheritance also means, in libGimbal, that functions will work the same way too

as in, remember how we inherit from GblObject?

it has function pointers you can call when creating / deleting objects, and if you define what those point to in the parent class,
they automatically work on the child too

for example:

Struct parent_class {
	void *pFnUpdate(void);
}

Struct child_class {
	struct parent_class parent;
}

so if we called pFnUpdate on child_class, it will work and update itself as the parent tells it to

this is what I do for pFnDraw on my widgets, since all widgets draw basically in the same way

those that need extra functionality just "extend" the draw function, like so:

void extended_update(void) {
	(parent_class)self->pFnUpdate(); <-
	... more stuff here ...
}

this is more or less how it works. not exactly, but it's pseudo code

does this make sense? I also need cypress to confirm when he comes back lol

anyways, now we need to create our own POPAnim class extending GblObject
we need to decide if we want/need more though 
are there any "special" cases we would want to handle separately and not as a flag? like a bool that you pass or smt like that
I would think not, but idk

by flag I just mean a bool that you pass as a property to the create function, like this one:

yeah, the boomerang


but I think the anims should be simple enough that we can just pass flags to the same class
so we will never need polymorphism

polymorphism in OOP means that you can treat class B as class A 
just like we did above

I need lots of it on the UI lib bc I treat everything as a widget, unless I need something specific to that element
but in the anim lib, I'm not sure you need polymorphism at all honestly
but I guess this is even better for learning libGimbal at first though, the code should be simple enough
and if we ever want to extend it, it'll be far easier than if we just hard-coded it

anyways we can start when cypress is ready, I'd appreciate if you can explain this to him when he's back
like how classes work and stuff
oh
lol
hi


lol

is there anything you'd like to ask before we begin?
or are you confident in your OOP skeeeelzzz

alright, let's go ahead then

okay, so we want to name our anim class just POPAnim ? kk, follow me